## Introduction to Doubly Linked List

### Recap:
Before exploring doubly linked lists, let's refresh our knowledge of linked lists. Linked lists are linear data structures consisting of nodes, each containing data and a reference (or pointer) to the next node. This setup allows for dynamic memory allocation and efficient insertions and deletions.

A significant characteristic of singly linked lists is their unidirectional nature, allowing traversal in only one direction, i.e., forward. Moving backward, such as going from the node at the 3rd position to the node at the 1st position, is not possible because each node in a singly linked list holds two pieces of information: the data (an integer value in this case) and a pointer that indicates the address of the next node. This structure enables efficient forward navigation, but the absence of a backward pointer restricts reverse traversal.


### C++ Code(Code for Singly Linked List):

``` cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// Node class represents a node in the linked list
class Node {
public:
    int data;     // Data value
    Node* next;   // Pointer to next node

    // Constructor with data and next
    Node(int data1, Node* next1) {
        data = data1;
        next = next1;
    }

    // Constructor with only data
    Node(int data1) {
        data = data1;
        next = nullptr;
    }
};

int main() {
    // Create an array
    vector<int> arr = {2, 5, 8, 7};

    // Create first node
    Node* y = new Node(arr[0]);

    // Print memory location of node
    cout << y << '\n';

    // Print data stored in node
    cout << y->data << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```
The code for Singly Linked List creates a class `Node` which has two member variables:

1. `int data`: This holds the data value that the node stores, which can be of any data type (in this case, an integer).

2. `Node* next`: This is a pointer to the next node in the linked list. It allows the nodes to be linked together, forming a sequence.

The class has two constructors:

1. The first constructor takes both the data and a pointer to the next node as parameters. It initializes the data and the next node accordingly.

2. The second constructor takes only the data as a parameter and sets its `next` to `nullptr`. It could be that this node is the end of the list since there is no reference to the next node. We can append the next of this node later by adding more nodes to the linked list.

---

### Doubly Linked List:
Doubly Linked Lists, as the name suggests, allow 2-way traversal by introducing two pointers in each node. This enables seamless traversal in both directions, making them a valuable tool for various advanced data structure applications.

- `Node* prev`: The introduction of the previous pointer is the key change from a singly linked list node. This pointer allows traversal in the backward direction, making it suitable for doubly linked lists.

- **Constructors:** Both constructors have been updated to initialize the new previous pointer. In the first constructor, `Node(int data1, Node* next, Node* prev)`, `prev` is initialized with the provided value. In the second constructor, `Node(int data1)`, the `prev` is initialized to `nullptr`, just like the `next`.

These changes differentiate the Node class for a doubly linked list, allowing it to maintain bidirectional links between nodes, as opposed to the unidirectional links in a singly linked list node.

### C++ Code(Code for Doubly Linked List):

``` cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// Class representing a node in a Doubly Linked List
class Node {
public:
    // Stores data of the node
    int data;

    // Pointer to the next node
    Node* next;

    // Pointer to the previous node
    Node* prev;

    // Constructor when data, next, and prev are provided
    Node(int data1, Node* next1, Node* prev1) {
        data = data1;
        next = next1;
        prev = prev1;
    }

    // Constructor when only data is provided
    Node(int data1) {
        data = data1;
        next = nullptr;
        prev = nullptr;
    }
};

int main() {
    // Initializing an array to create nodes
    vector<int> arr = {2, 5, 8, 7};

    // Creating the head node of the doubly linked list
    Node* head = new Node(arr[0]);

    // Printing the address of the head node
    cout << head << '\n';

    // Printing the data stored in the head node
    cout << head->data << '\n';

    return 0;
}
```

